# CS340

course reflection:
Writing adaptable and maintainable code is a vital skill to learn. With each course I complete, I become more confident in my ability to write high quality programs. I believe meaningful names and a logical organization to your code is the key to a solid program. While descriptive code comments are important for any program, with descriptive names and a logical order, comments are nearly obsolete. This course, and the way assignments were laid out offered opportunity to write code one week and refactor it for another purpose the next. I think this is a vital skill in software development as well. Understanding your code and next goal well enough to repurpose and then maintain it in a new project is an important skill. 
This class also offered plenty of problem soliving opportunities, like many other previously. I learned early on in my computer science journey, that breaking projects down into small digestable pieces is what works best for me. I prefer to write a little bit of code, test it, and then write a little more in order to meet the requirements set in place. While working with a database was entirely new for me, many classes add in new IDEs or languages but the problem solving approach remains the same. I rely on my general coding knowledge, the resources we are provided, and trial and error. When it comes to development and working with new technology, I always prefer getting right to work and testing it out myself. Making mistakes and figuring out how to solve them, and continue progressing in assignments is how I become most comfortable with a new piece of technology.
In the most simple sense, computer scientists create new ways to complete various actions. Ultimately I think that every computer scientist wants to make someone's life easier through turning a task digital. In terms of this project, the goal was to make the database easy to view, and pre-load a few common queries. This in turn could help people who work at this animal shelter find specific animals quick than if they were digging through physical files, or typing queries from the command line. All of this said, while the intent of my developers is to help people, we have an obligation and responsibility to consider accessibility in all that we do and create. Accessibility of digital spaces is necessary for some people, but helpful to all. If we continue to create technology that widens this gap of inaccessibility in the world, we are alienating a whole crowd of people who have plenty of desire and ability to contribute to society. What we do as computer scientists matters, but it has to be done responsibly.
